So we mentioned custom post types a lot of times during this course. Let's now create custom post types.
Just to remind you, in WordPress by default we have some post types like the post and the media and pages. And
they are all saved in the same table in the database so here we have the our database and the posts
table. And they're just differentiated by a column here called "post_type".
So we have post and we've page and we have attachment for images and stuff like that.
So let's say now we need to create a new custom post type. Let's say we need to create a portfolio. So a user can
add portfolio items.
So what we will do is we will add another item here in addition to post and pages we will add portfolio.
Also when you create a post you can add categories and tags, right?
So let's edit any post.
So we have here categories and categories can be hierarchical.
They can have, you know, categories and subcategories and so on.
And you also have tags. Tags however
can only have one level.
There is no hierarchy in tags.
So we need to do the same thing in our custom post type. For each portfolio item we need to create
2 taxonomies. So categories and tags are called taxonomies. And taxonomies are things that you use to classify
your post.
So here we have the category taxonomy and tag taxonomy. In the portfolio item we need to create also
custom taxonomies. We need to create a project type.
So this will be the type of the portfolio item in our website, video and so on.
And this will be hierarchical.
It will have this UI.
And it can have parents and children. And we will also create a skills taxonomy. And this will be like
the tags no hierarchy, just one level, tags and subtags and so on. And the skills can be,
you know, the skills used for this project like, maybe HTML, CSS, Photoshop and stuff like that.
So WordPress provides functions to register custom post types and custom taxonomies. But let's do that in
the next lecture.
And therefore this lecture let's create a plugin where we will register our post types and taxonomies.
So custom post types are also one of these things that you have to register in plugins and not in
your theme.
So let's go to our folder and the plugins. And let's copy the maybe the shortcodes.
And let's call this one "post-types". And let's go ahead to our text editor and let's add the new folder to
the workspace.
So post-types and let's modify the stuff in the package.json.
So let's call this one "post_types" and avoid using "-" in this name because
we use this prefix in functions names and functions names cannot contain "-", right? So always use
"_" instead. And in the gulpfile in this plugin we will not have any CSS or javascript.
We will just register post-types. So we won't have to do anything in the gulpfile.
You can maybe remove the CSS and JavaScript tasks. But let's keep them for now.
And what we have to do next is we have to go to the includes. And let's remove the files
that we don't need.
And in index.php let's also remove all of that stuff. And let's modify this to "Custom Post Types". And
let's create some files, new files in includes. And we'll create a single file for each thing that we will
register.
So we will register a portfolio-post-type.php and we will also register a project-type-taxonomy, let's call it
project-type-tax.php and finally a skills taxonomy.
And let's finally include these files here and in the next lecture we'll start populating these files.
So include_ones() and "includes/portfolio-post-type.php".
And "project-type-tax" and the "skills-tax". And finally we'll have to go into our theme and modify a couple of
things, right?
We will have to modify the gulpfile and include our new plugin in the "plugins".
So let's copy one of these.
This one is called "post-types".
And finally we'll have to go to the include-plugins file and we'll have to require another plugin.
So this one's gonna be "post types" and "post-types". And also "post-types.zip".
So I think that will be it.
Let's now go to the website and we should now have any dashboard message that we have a plugin that we
need to activate. So let's activate it. And let's do one final thing.
Let's try and build our plugin.
So in a new tab I'm gonna change to my plugin and run "npm run
bundle".
All right we have an error.
So I think we need to clear the CSS and the JavaScript files.
So here we import some files that do not exist anymore.
So let's delete this whole assets folder, we won't need that
and let's run build again.
And also we'll have to remove the in the gulpfile in the plugin not in the theme. Let's also remove the styles and
scripts and the images from the "build" and the "dev" tasks. We won't need these anymore.
And
now it's done. Let's go to the packaged. And we have some old files here.
So an issue here as you can see the file will be called firsttheme-post_types
because that's what we put in the package.json.
And here we mentioned that the plugins path is "post-types" so you can either change this to "_".
But if you want to keep consistent with the other plugins
we can modify the gulpfile in the plugin and in the "compress" task when we name our plugin.
So in the "zip" task we can, the info.name which will contain post_plugin we can replace the
"_" with a "-".
So let's try and build now.
And as you can see you have firsttheme-post-types. So
that was a quick note.
Let's in the next lecture start registering our custom post types and custom taxonomies.